>> Bianca Gandolfo: What is a stack,
and what is a queue?
They are both ordered
collections of items.
Ordered, not sorted, but
there is an order to them.
They are a limited access data structure.
That means that you can only access
certain elements given some rules.
Versus a random access data
structure like an array,
you can access in the middle
if you wanted to.
For a stack or
a queue there are certain rules, right?
Either last in first out,
or first in first out.
They are known for
fast insert and fast removal.
Cool, so what are the differences?
A stack is Last in/First Out.
So the last one you put on top
you also take that one off.
A queue is First in/First Out.
The first one in is the first one out.
So it comes out in I would say correct
order in terms of if we're taking turns.
We all use the example, for some reason,
standing in line at the deli.
Literally every single thing you find
on the Internet about a queue it talks
about a deli.
I don't think everyone's from New York.
>> class: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Just really bad
at making examples.
A stack, everyone talks about pancake
stacks, or a stack of books, actually.
A stack of books is the one.
And some vocab, push and pop,
we talk about stacks in those terms.
Queue, dequeue, enqueue.
Sometimes they'll be different names,
but more or less the same.
It's the same idea, just different names.
Cool, so some uses for a stack.
Backtracking, undo.
We explored the call stack with recursion.
Kind of explored how that works.
Parsing expressions, depth first search.
Queue we use for breadth first search.
We looked at our pop-up messages.
We have our event queue in the browser.
Whenever you click on something,
queues up.
HTTP requests to a server
are gonna be queued up and
answered in order, maybe, maybe.
In the order in which it arrives, but
whenever it gets there, who knows?
Cool.
So how do we implement them?
We implemented them using objects, but
you can also implement them
using linked lists or arrays.
We also implemented a stack using
a string if you guys remember that.
We have different ways of implementation,
so you need to be mindful of the pros and
cons for each,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: That's all I ask.
Let's take a look.
So here is an implementation
using an array.
Someone was asking me about this
the other day, so here we are.
We have our elements,
our storage is an array.
When we pop it off, again, constant time.
When we push, also constant time, great.
Queue enqueue, so when we push,
again, we have our constant time.
However when we dequeue we're
using the shift operator, or
shift method, method, method.
Sorry to sound like a Minnesotan.
Method.
Or no is that southern?
>> class: I was gonna say,
we don't sound like that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: [LAUGH] I gotta
stop before I get pitchforks.
>> class: [LAUGH].
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we have a problem here for
our queue that our dequeue is probably
linear time because of the shift method.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
There are some ways to account for this.
If we create an array
that's pretty big and
we start queueing, in the middle of it,
that's a way to save some time.
However, linear time,
if we just do it regular.
So we can optimize it by using an object
and keeping track of the head and tail.
And this is what we did in
our exercises on day one.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right,
second queue.
This is mostly an exercise in
just doing the class patterns.
So if you remember back to the class
patterns, we can talk about that.
Anything noteworthy about stack and queue?
>> Student: I think it was
pretty straightforward.
But I have to admit that when it came to
the very first exercise on the first day,
I blanked.
I was like, I didn't even know what to do.
What are the directions here?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, and
that's super common, right?
If this connection between an abstract
concept, and how does that turn into code?
You have to exercise that muscle.
And then, after you've done it, then
you're like, that actually wasn't so bad.
Very cool.
Thank you for being honest.
>> Student: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, anyone else?
Anyone else blank out at the beginning
of the exercise when, yeah?
>> Student2: Sounds very simple, but when
you go to writing it, it there's a block.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, yeah, yeah,
unless you're actually doing push and
pop, right?
In which case you get that for free.
>> Student2: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, cool.
Anything?
Okay, we'll move on.
Okay, Ernest did as well, online.
Ernest is so earnest.
Cool, so further study, it might be
interesting to look into how the call
stack and the event queue work together
when you execute your JavaScript code.
It's kinda cool, I would look into that.